
Adding a host
=============

Create a uuid and a json config file like this

	uuidgen
	67f9a2ff-9f3f-43cc-9429-299486c781d0
	echo '{ "zone": "dynamic.uucico.de", "hostname": "sid" }' >hosts/67f9a2ff-9f3f-43cc-9429-299486c781d0.json

Now the host *sid.dynamic.uucico.de* may be modified with:

    curl -6 https://dynamic.uucico.de/dyndns/v1/update/67f9a2ff-9f3f-43cc-9429-299486c781d0/v6/request/0.0.0.0

Options may be removed e.g. 

    curl -4 https://dynamic.uucico.de/dyndns/v1/update/67f9a2ff-9f3f-43cc-9429-299486c781d0/v4

Will update the v4 record from the REQUESTS address and remove everything else.

Modes of record manipulation
============================

The url consists of

	/v1/update/<uuid>/<mode>/<source>/<address>

- uuid has to match the file in the the hosts directory
- mode is 
  - v6		Deletes all records and adds a v6 record
  - v6only	Updates only the v6 record and ignores others
  - v4 		Deletes all records and adds a v4 record
  - v4only	Deletes only the v4 record and ignores others
- source is
  - request	Take address from the Webservers REMOTE_ADDRESS

- address could be a manual address to be set

FritzBox usage
===============

The Fritz!Box supports commercial DynDNS offerings but it works with
this setup aswell. Use a string like this. The Fritz!Box will replace
the **<ipaddr>** and **<ip6addr>** with the correct ip addresses.

	https://dynamic.uucico.de/dyndns/v1/updateall/youruuid/<ipaddr>/<ip6addr>/

The Fritz!Box Web GUI has fields for Domainname, Username and Password which may not be
empty. So put anything in there. The code will ignore it.

Installation
============

dyndns config
-------------

You need to create a config with all zones which are updateable with server server and
key:

	{
		"zones": {
			"dynamic.uucico.de": {
				"server": "localhost",
				"key": "hmac-md5:uucicoupdate:Jkhjdiuh787sJKsha=="
			}
		}
	}


Apache config
-------------

    ScriptAlias /dyndns/ /var/www/dyndns/dyndns/
    <Location /dyndns/>
        Options ExecCGI
        SetHandler fcgid-script
    </Location>	

Bind config
-----------

You will need to add a dynamic updateable zone with a key. This key needs to be in the *config.js* aswell.

    zone "dynamic.uucico.de." {
        type master;
        file "dynamic/dynamic.uucico.de";
        
        allow-update { key uucicoupdate; };
        allow-query { any; };
    };
